river and sea that I met on my way
all come from this little fluid
they gather together
and become river
final to sea
where will it go in the end?
this hill stream seems common
but in fact
it is the headstream of Duliu River
Duliu River sets off here
passing Liuzhou in Guangxi Province
rolls to Pearl River Delta Region
when rain above Miaoling meets fog over forest in valley
it turns into countless little fluids
they flow along hills and take in other fluids
through hundreds of thousands of villages and fields
they finally turn into big river on which ships can travel
it is fair to say what makes out Duliu River
is rain and fog over Guizhou
as well as Miaoling lay in the southeast of Guizhou Province
at mention of Miaoling
it is not one mountain
instead，from Huishui County in Qiannan
to Leishan County in Qiandongnan
stretching mountains are everywhere from west to east
it's called Miaoling
because Miao and Dong people live at the zone
in the following journey
centered around Rongjiang County of Qiandongnan
I visited several villages in east region of Miaoling
I didn't visit any famous tourist attractions
as Qianhu Miaozhai or Zhaoxing Dongzhai
but nature villages scattered over the mountains instead
Zengying Village is a big Dong village
I expected to see people singing Dong songs over night here
but when I got into the village
I found out the village has no intention for tourist development yet
Wind-rain Bridge is the signal of Dong village
and a shelter for pedestrians
while Drum Tower, for my understanding
acts as the political and cultural center for a village
they are the shiniest cultural signal for Dong people
and might become the most likely protected culture heritage
during urbanization construction
a grandpa told me how busy drum tower was in old days
but when it comes to the age of  labor service export
young people run out mountains
those singing boys stay behind still
it feels like that we no longer write letters
wind-rain bridges and drum towers
were replaced by current phones and pads
I run into a county leader back town that day
though the communication sounded a bit serious
when he spoke of the village of his birth
Mr Pan knew every detail of it
what's the main income here?
labor export
what about agriculture？
rice
it seems...young people
don't wear national dresses any more
no
this is the traditional clothes
but pants are not
all of these may disappear  slowly
Zengying Village lives at its own pace
away from the great tourist development wave
traditions are not maintained or deduced on purpose
maybe in future
traditional  wooden houses
would be replaced by brick and cement dwellings
however it think it fair and nature
everyone has the rights to pursue a better life
if it's said the change of social communication
shakes Dong village 's culture foundation
then for Kongshen Miaozhai isolated in remote Miaoling
with the help of social media
it could better keep its traditions
I'm going to
a really remote village
I know I describe a village remote every time I drive to
but this one is really really distant
it takes more than 3 hrs
start from Rongjiang County of Qiandongnan
so...I'm driving quite long
it's 1p.m. now
I heard there's a festival in the village today
called Maoren Festival
villagers will dress up
the opportunity is too good to miss
first for the festival
second for  miniskirt, its unique dress for girls
Excuse me
Is Kongshen Village there?
yes! this way!
how is the way?
as tough as the one before
here I am!
The car park is full
the ceremony has begun!
let me take a look
it's up there
they are celebrating a traditional festival
Lusheng dance of Miao People
Kongshen Miaozhai lay in a rural valley in Miaoling
it is one of the branches of Miao People, called Jinji Miao
or Duanqun Miao in more grounded term
miniskirt is common dress feature for Duanqun Miao
while Maoren Festival is unique in Liangwang Town
the festival was ancient from old rules
that relatives could not marry each other
in the war era
time flows to the peace era
and it drifted into the local Valentine's Day
when it comes to the rural tourism era
miniskirt and Maoren Festival
act as cultural signals for Kongshen Village going out the mountain
to my surprise
expect me as an individual tourist
ournalists and photographers were invited by county governor
brought  miniskirt and Maoren Festival
communicative and cultural function
besides own team
the county also invited other towns and villages to perform
here is the Nangong Village from Taijiang Town
final attack is coming!
to be honest, the performance is lack of appreciation
but it is the most valuable part of it
people who joined the show
were not professionals recruited
but local citizens
they wore own costumes
and danced accustomed step
every smile and movement comes out of nature
they didnt come with  ambition to guard traditional culture
but the happiness of singing and dancing
besides, the country treated them dinner
when people was busy on the hill
chefs were busy with dinner
local performance teams
journalists and photographers were invited to the village feast
it was Saturday
and the feast was arranged on the playground of village school
Kongshen Elementary School
is the biggest and flattest place in the village
this table were all young people
the four girls were well dressed
I think...
you need to get close to learn about the culture
can you send the pictures to me later?
sure!
you are all very pretty!
could you introduce about the festival?
married people... meet their old lovers...
hahahahhahahha
but we are all signals!
people sing love songs to each other
get dressed up
kind like blind dates
is it like Valentine's Day?
Yes! Miao People's Valentine's Day!
so are you coming back to village for blind dates?
yes!
there was a camp fire and performance planned after feast
which should be my most anticipated moment
but a heavy rain fell suddenly before the feast
it rained for half an hour
people squeezed in the school
the following activities had to be canceled
it's 7 p.m. now
rain gets heavier and heavier
and it's getting dark
now I finally run into my car
it's getting cold
the temperature drops immediately after rain
my car keeps me warm
I haven't eaten anything yet today
all day I'm busy shooting
if I went for eating
then good shots would be missed
I assume rain would stop after an hour
before that, I have to wait in the car
when I came back to the school
tables were moved into classrooms
crowds dispersed
I eventually forgot to send girls their photos
weather is changeable in Guizhou
it starts to rain now... you see
people all run away
culture of Kongshen Village are eager to walk out
tradition heritage is more difficult than construction maintenance
whether to inherit traditional  culture or develop the economy
both need money
still I feel luck to meet you right now
Maolan is my last stop in Guizhou
and my favorite place in Guizhou
Libo gives all fame to Little Qikong and Zhangjiang
leaving Maolan peace and undisturbed
I left all my tiredness and keen
in this invisible forest
for Guizhou
What else would you tell us?